Stephen,just a simple question, who are the we that are so blazingly angry. It definitely does not seem to be the us who make up the overwhelming number of Australians who support the detention of those who choose to invade us after going through several safe countries. Please do no try to convince me, a member of the us. that they are anything but economic opportunists who via their network see us as a soft touch. In recent years they have been shown that the we/us are no longer the suckers we once were and have stopped coming. It seems as if the policy is working so why change it.

They're refugees and asylum seekers, else they wouldn't have been accepted at all. It's also a poor argument for Australia stooping to using concentration camps.

Trebor72 - I feel like you have misunderstood part of the article you just read, it does state who the 'we' who are angry are: the so-called "misty-eyed" advocates who show concern for refugees. Although you do not identify as one of them, please don't ignore the fact that we exist - there are plenty of people who are anguished over what Australia is doing to these people.
It makes me quite sad that you see these people's attempted immigration as an invasion - the majority of the people who have been assessed (although many are still awaiting confirmation) have been shown to be genuine refugees. It is not illegal to seek asylum, according to the Refugee convention that Australia is a signatory to.
However, even if they are economic opportunists as you say - no one, absolutely NO ONE deserves to live in the conditions they are living in now. People don't set themselves on fire because they want so bad to get to Australia, that's ridiculous. Perhaps they set themselves on fire because they have run out of hope and want to die. Maybe it's because they see a cause that is worth sacrificing their life for - the abolishment of these camps.

Stephen, people seek refuge from warfare and abuse, which they are legally entitled to do under international law. We are signatories to those international agreements. We are not being 'invaded' by anyone. (The only 'invading' that ever happened here was by the British in 1788 and the following years.) There are, in fact, few countries who have signed the refugee convention and options are very limited for those who flee imminent danger. Just naming a country as 'safe' because it is geographically on the way between 'there' and 'here', does not make it so. Those countries may not accept refugees, may allow them to work, may not allow them to be educated, may again treat them as unwanted and expose them to danger and abuse. I would ask you to research those countries which you declare are safe and state them clearly. I would also ask you to explain why around 90% of those who come seeking asylum are found to be genuine refugees according to UNHCR criteria. Bob Carr was wrong, and you are wrong, they are not 'economic opportunists'. In fact, many leave everything they have built over a lifetime...their homes, careers and families, in order to find safety. Unless you have made such a move yourself, then you have no idea how difficult it is to leave everything and start again. No one does it lightly. These are not uni students on a gap year looking for a more highly paid position. The policy must change, as we have a responsibility as international citizens to take our share of those who are fleeing war, (and only a tiny number arrive here as it is) and often war that we have participated in. One day, it may be us who need to seek refuge.

A small percentage have been found to be economic opportunists but the majority have been found to be genuine refugees. These detainees, both the true refugees and the economic opportunists are no more than political prisoners. Their long incarceration is not the result of their political beliefs or actions. They are prisoners to suit the callous agendas of Labor and the Coalition who don't want quick resolution of the status of the detainees. The resolution of status would mean that a safe place needs to be found for the genuine refugees for which there is no answer bar Australia and NZ.

Because it is an abuse of human rights and against a number of conventions. The fact that we are breaking international law to do it is quite bad enough. This isn't what "stops" the boats. Push backs and not reporting "on water matters" makes it seem like we have "stopped the boats." There are infinitely better ways to change the situation that would leave billions more in our budget to spend on Aussies.

Me. I'm one of the ones who are blazingly angry. And your circle of friends who agree with your worldview that is based in zero evidence, are not the majority of Australians

Stephen, why are there so many of them? Does anyone do anything about birth control or do they think it's ok to keep creating more mouths to feed and then expect someone else to sort it out?

Thank you Stephen. Many people in the community are angry as you say. 
The pollies and much of the press have somehow though managed to convince a lot of people that asylum seekers are greedy criminals who are acting illegally (or even 'invaders'), when in fact they are not at all. 
(And some claim to be able to read their minds as well!). 
Yet as we've discovered lately the only one acting illegally is the Govt itself. Those who despise the boat arrivals seem to completely overlook that fact.

Stephen speaks for me - I am part of the "we", and I know there are so many others who join me. I am angry and ashamed. Enough is enough. Bring them here.

Sixty-five years ago, when Australia signed the Refugee Convention, homosexual relationships were illegal in Australia. It was the convention in those days to label homosexuals in derogatory terms such as 'poofs', 'faggots' or, worse, 'perverts'. State by state, homosexuality was decriminalised and eventually legalised between 1975 and 1997. The idea that a 65yo, non-binding convention should be sacrosanct now is anathema to reasonable people. One should expect better from a former judge.

I am one of the "blazingly angry" and there are many many others like me; angry not only about these inhumane concentration camps, but also about the fact that more public figures have not spoken up about this and that those who have, have been portrayed as anti-Australian (like Gillian Triggs etc). In my view, those who stand by idly or even offer tacit support to this inhumane policy are the un-Australian ones. When we accepted Vietnamese refugees during and after that war, our country did well. Those refugees have become good citizens. How is it that we can now act so badly with many just closing their eyes and ears to this shameful act. I would suggest that instead of being made pariahs by their oposition to this evil policy, many will vote accordingly at the election, where they can express their "blazing anger" in secret. It's a great pity that it's come to this.

Please Stephen Charles no more "manning up". It's "manning up" that has produced the cruelty, inflexibility, lack of analysis, lack of compassion, lack of capacity to admit when a terrible mistake has been made and change direction etc that we have now. We need the opposite of "manning up".

Thankyou Stephen and The Age for this To those supporting the terrible incarceration of those seeking safe sanctuary in our country I quote "The way a government treats refugees is very instructive because it shows you how they would treat the rest of us if they thought they could get away with it" Tony Benn former British Labour MP.

Trebor "safe countries" are defined as UN refugee convention signatory countries , which there are a distinct lack of in the middle east and southeast Asia (only Cambodia , Nauru , PNG ,Australia and New Zealand are signatories to the refugee convention in this Area of the world) , any other country they find themselves in they have no legal protection .

Trebor 72... Which safe countries do you mean? I'll give you one example of several people I know, who were among the last to get here by boat. They were persecuted and at risk of their life in Afghanistan because they were of a minority group. Other relatives were slaughtered and they fled. They escaped to Pakistan, but were not welcome there either and two of their friends were killed. They got to Malaysia but were "illegal" so were not allowed to work or study there. They moved onto Indonesia, and were in the same situation. In desperation they finally got a boat here. That's a fairly typical story (and I have worked with new arrivals since the first wave of Vietnamese boat people). Not sure which "safe countries" they should have stayed in?

That's right Mr Charles, the PM should ignore the clearly stated will of the public, he should forget the disaster that followed the dismantling of the Pacific Solution, he should disregard the outstanding success of Sovereign Borders and of course should not take into account the certain resumption of people smuggling if your suggestion was followed.

One would think that as a part of the Prime Minister's innovation strategy, that he could innovate himself a way to protect our borders without pushing asylum seekers into a pit of despair so dark and hopeless that self-immolation is the only way out.

Those Australians who have bothered to inform themselves about what is happening in Australia's ghastly detention centres, on and offshore, are indeed outraged that this is being done in our name. It is the first principle of our law that you don't hold an innocent person indefinitely imprisoned to deter others from committing a crime. There are far better, more humane, and infinitely cheaper, ways to "break the people smugglers' business model." This is purely bigotry in action. We wouldn't be doing it to White Zimbabwean farmers.

I'm one of those angry people. Since the lies of Howard's children overboard the actions of the Australian government have been callous, illegal, and thoroughly immoral. This has to change.

Naru and Manus are very harsh and these people need to be assessed and moved on quickly. However Joe Public in the burbs outside the goat cheese circle are deeply opposed to people arriving by boat via people smugglers. They see the current regime as successful. The Greens parade their compassion but the Libs and Labor have polled the swinging seats and found massive support for the current policy and political destruction in any change that starts up the people trade to Australia again. I believe the Jonathon Holmes article of yesterday stated the Pacific solution is ugly but it works. Screaming racist at anyone who supports the current regime changes nothing. Liking each others facebook posts of refugee compassion is pathetic and does nothing to address the huge challenge of refugees from war, failed states and soon in the millions climate change.

I am among the blazing angry and the number of Australians who do not support the detention of people who are refugees in offshore concentration camps.

Great article
And completely accurate.
If you don't believe it, go and visit a few detention centres. The Australian ones a bad, but the offshore ones - Manus and Nauru - are appalling
We once had a reasonable reputation as a country that believed in decency and the idea of a fair go for everyone. That reputation has been trashed, by our deliberate mistreatment of people who have just tried to escape to safety.
Our politicians call them "illegal" but they are not: they commit no offence by coming here, without papers, without an invitation, looking for safety.
We are mistreating innocent, frightened people. It's not what this country is really about