I think it is far too kind to give Peter Dutton the benefit of doubt that he could substantiate yesterday's egregious claims against advocates. Why?

1. It beggars belief that an advocate would urge self-harm or suicide. All that I know go to great lengths to provide support and discourage such acts. If that was all, then I would say that was extremely unlikely that Dutton's claim is true.

2. If he had the evidence, there would seem to be no reason not to use it. Quite the contrary, his past actions suggest that if he had evidence he would have used it at the first opportunity to condemn those involved. That he has not done so makes it almost certain that he has not got anything to support his egregious claims.

3. This has all the hallmarks of another fabrication. No, let me avoid euphemisms, a lie. The big lie, repeated again and again is that asylum seekers are 'illegals'. They are not: this is done to demonise asylum seekers, so that many voters will support the cruel policies towards them. How do we know they are not 'illegals'? Dutton's department's Chief Lawyer has said so:

Senator KIM CARR : Is it illegal to seek refugee status in this country?

Ms Parker* : It is not, Senator.

Senator KIM CARR : It is not illegal to seek asylum?

Ms Parker : No."

Senator KIM CARR : I am just wondering how many people have been convicted of this offence?

Ms Parker : Senator, as per the evidence I previously gave, there is no offence.

Senator KIM CARR : So, there has been no charge of anyone arriving here illegally? 

Ms Parker : There is no offence under the Migration Act for entering without a visa.

* Vicki Parker, Chief Lawyer, Legal & Assurance Division, Department of Immigration and Border Protection

Senate Legal and Constitutional Affairs Legislation Committee hearing 19 November 2013.

-------------

So, there seems little scope for doubt that there is no substantiation and that this is just another act of demonisation, designed to deflect attention away from the goverment's deliberate inhumanity.