The Northern Territory's Chief Minister wants the Wickham Point Detention Centre to remain open, despite asylum seeker advocates applauding the Federal Government's plan to close the facility by November.

Key points:

Wickham Point is one of four facilities to be closed
Mr Giles says closing it would mean a lack of facilities in Australia's "frontline defence"
Asylum seeker supporter says closure is long overdue
The Federal Government has announced it will close four immigration detention centres across Australia to consolidate its onshore detention network and save almost $70 million.

It includes Wickham Point in Darwin, Villawood in Sydney, Maribyrnong in Melbourne and Perth's residential facility.

The Northern Territory's Chief Minister, Adam Giles, said just before the announcement he hoped the Darwin facility would remain open.

"I have a firm position on the detention facility here in the Top End," Mr Giles said.

"Darwin is the frontline of defence of northern Australia and at the time when the Federal Government is closing detention centres around this nation they must keep the Darwin detention centre open."

Mr Giles also said the Federal Government needed to honour a memorandum of understanding it made with Territory police to provide an additional 94 officers to bolster security at the detention facility.

He said need was demonstrated by a Wickham Point detainee's attempted escape on Monday afternoon.

"If the Federal Government pursue this agenda of wanting to remove the detention centre out of Darwin and either putting it down south or in another position, I think it leaves Australia pretty bare with facilities to be able to meet the need of any likely future illegal arrival that may turn up on our shores," Mr Giles said.

The union representing workers at Wickham Point said it was too early to comment on how the closure would affect its members.

Closure is long overdue: asylum seeker support group

Natasha Blucher from the Darwin Asylum Seeker Support and Advocacy Network (DASSAN) said the planned closure was long overdue.

"The facility is in a very remote location and there's a lack of services in the Northern Territory region to assist asylum seekers," Ms Blucher said.

"In addition the harsh environment of the location means in our view the facility should never have been built."

Ms Blucher said the centre was originally built for maximum security and had significant structural problems.

"It means Wickham has high fences, electrical fences, it has a lot of security hardware. And the environment itself is not conducive to a healthy living environment," Ms Blucher said.

"The place is next to a swamp, there's always a problem with midges and mosquitoes, it's quite hot and the way the detention centre is set up with dongas on top of dongas means there's a lack of natural light and it's quite an oppressive environment."

DASSAN also said the closure of onshore centres meant the Government was in a position to close offshore processing centres in Nauru and Manus Island.

"It must be in a position to work with the region to assist the UNHCR to process claims in South-East Asia and create an orderly resettlement program there," Ms Blucher said.

"I mean if the numbers have lowered to that extent, then it means that there are resources in the department that are freed up to work on those sorts of issues."

Ms Blucher said the Wickham Point detainees would most likely be sent to other centres in southern states and she hoped some would be released into community detention.